Add Developer guide (#46)
opensearch-project/remote-vector-index-builder: DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md

[Developer Guide](#developer-guide)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Fork OpenSearch Remote Vector Index Builder Repo](#fork-remote-vector-index-builder-repo)
    - [Install Prerequisites](#install-prerequisites)
        - [Python Dependencies](#python-dependencies)
- [Python Guide](#python-guide)
    - [Language Formatting Guide](#language-formatting-guide)
    - [Testing Guide](#testing-guide)
- [Building Docker Images](#building-docker-images)
    - [Faiss Base Image](#faiss-base-image)
    - [Core Image](#core-image)
- [Memory Profiling](#memory-profiling)
    - [GPU Memory Profiling with NVIDIA SMI](#gpu-memory-profiling-with-nvidia-smi)
    - [CPU Memory Profiling with memory_profiler](#cpu-memory-profiling-with-memory_profiler)

# Developer Guide

> So you want to contribute code to OpenSearch k-NN? Excellent! We're glad you're here. Here's what you need to do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So you want to contribute code to Remote Vector Index Builder? Excellent! We're glad you're here. Here's what you need to do.
```

## Getting Started

### Fork Remote Vector Index Builder Repo

Fork [opensearch-project/OpenSearch Remote Vector Index Builder](https://github.com/opensearch-project/remote-vector-index-builder) and clone locally.

Example:
```
git clone https://github.com/[username]/remote-vector-index-builder.git
```

### Install Prerequisites

#### Python Dependencies
Core Dependencies
```
pip install -r remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt
```

Test Dependencies
```
pip install -r test_remote_vector_index_builder/requirements.txt
```

## Python Guide
### Language Formatting Guide

> Run commands from the root folder
> Configuration of below tools can be found in [setup.cfg](setup.cfg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following commands from the root folder. Configuration of below tools can be found in [setup.cfg](setup.cfg)
```

> Code Lint check can be run with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code lint check can be run with:
```

```
flake8 remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

The formatting check can be run with:
```
black --check remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

The code can be formatted with:
```
black remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

### Testing Guide
Mypy checks
```
mypy remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```
Pytest checks
```
pytest test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

## Building Docker Images
The Github CIs automatically publish snapshot images to Dockerhub at [opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder](https://hub.docker.com/r/opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder)

> Following are the commands to locally build the images:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are commands to build the images locally:
```

> ### Faiss Base Image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Faiss Base Image
```

> The [Faiss repository](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss/) is added as a submodule in this repository
> Run the below command to initialize the submodule first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Faiss repository](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss/) is added as a submodule in this repository. Run the below command to initialize the submodule first:
```

```
git submodule update --init
```

> Then run the below command to create the faiss base image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then run the below command to create the Faiss base image
```

```
docker build  -f ./base_image/build_scripts/Dockerfile . -t opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder:faiss-base-latest
```

> ### Core Image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Core Image
```

> The path /remote-vector-index-builder/core contains the code for core index build functionalities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path `/remote-vector-index-builder/core` contains the code for core index build functionalities:
```

1. Building an Index
2. Object Store I/O

> Build an image to package the core functionality using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build an image with the above core functionalities:
```

```
docker build  -f ./remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile . -t opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder:core-latest
```

## Memory Profiling

### GPU Memory Profiling with NVIDIA SMI

Install py3nvml: In /remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt add py3nvml on a newline

> Run the following command

Reviewer: Can you fix the formatting here? Add periods or split to new lines.

```
pip install --no-cache-dir --upgrade -r /remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt
```

> Add import statement and initialize method in the main file

Reviewer: If this is the name of the file, let's use `main` or `main.py`

Author: We currently don't have a main.py
I'll just mention it as: 
`Add import statement and initialize method in the file containing the driver code`
for now

```
from py3nvml import nvidia_smi
nvidia_smi.nvmlInit()
```

> Define and call the below method wherever mecessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define and call the below method wherever necessary
```

> eg: Before and after calling the GPU index cleanup method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g. before and after calling the GPU index cleanup method
```

```
from py3nvml import nvidia_smi

def get_gpu_memory():

>     handle = nvidia_smi.nvmlDeviceGetHandleByIndex(0)  # GPU 0

Reviewer: Can you expand on the 0 argument? `GPU 0` is unclear to me

Author: # GPU Device ID

    info = nvidia_smi.nvmlDeviceGetMemoryInfo(handle)
    print(f"Total: {info.total/1024**2:.2f}MB")
    print(f"Free: {info.free/1024**2:.2f}MB")
    print(f"Used: {info.used/1024**2:.2f}MB")

```

### CPU Memory Profiling with memory_profiler

> Add “RUN conda install -c conda-forge memory_profiler -y" to /remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add `RUN conda install -c conda-forge memory_profiler -y` to `/remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile`
```

> In the file that contains the function that needs to be proflled, add the import and a @profile annotation on the function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the file that contains the function that needs to be profiled, add the import and an `@profile` annotation on the function
```

    - [Install Prerequisites](#install-prerequisites)
        - [Python Dependencies](#python-dependencies)
- [Python Guide](#python-guide)
    - [Language Formatting Guide](#language-formatting-guide)
    - [Testing Guide](#testing-guide)
- [Building Docker Images](#building-docker-images)
    - [Faiss Base Image](#faiss-base-image)
    - [Core Image](#core-image)
- [Memory Profiling](#memory-profiling)
    - [GPU Memory Profiling with NVIDIA SMI](#gpu-memory-profiling-with-nvidia-smi)
    - [CPU Memory Profiling with memory_profiler](#cpu-memory-profiling-with-memory_profiler)

# Developer Guide

So you want to contribute code to OpenSearch Remote Vector Index Builder? Excellent! We're glad you're here. Here's what you need to do.

## Getting Started

### Fork Remote Vector Index Builder Repo

Fork [opensearch-project/OpenSearch Remote Vector Index Builder](https://github.com/opensearch-project/remote-vector-index-builder) and clone locally.

Example:
```
git clone https://github.com/[username]/remote-vector-index-builder.git
```

### Install Prerequisites

#### Python Dependencies
Core Dependencies:
```

> pip install -r remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt

Reviewer 2: Is this step actually useful? We can only run the core image on a GPU instance via docker container.

Author: Listed it for local execution

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to call out that you cant build the index if you do local testing. It may seem obvious to us, but we should make it super clear to whoever is reading this.

Author: Added a Provisioning dev instance section
Mentioned at the right places that images need to be created using an NVIDIA GPU

```

Test Dependencies:
```
pip install -r test_remote_vector_index_builder/requirements.txt
```

## Python Guide
### Language Formatting Guide
Run the following commands from the root folder. Configuration of below tools can be found in [`setup.cfg`](setup.cfg).

The code lint check can be run with:
```
flake8 remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

The formatting check can be run with:
```
black --check remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

The code can be formatted with:
```
black remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

### Testing Guide
The static type checking can be done with:
```
mypy remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```
The python tests can be run with:
```
pytest test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

## Building Docker Images
The Github CIs automatically publish snapshot images to Dockerhub at [opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder](https://hub.docker.com/r/opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder).

The following are the commands to build the images locally:

> ### Faiss Base Image

Reviewer 2: should mention somewhere that we can only build the base image on a server with GPUs

```
docker build  -f ./remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile . -t opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder:core-latest
```

## Memory Profiling

### GPU Memory Profiling with NVIDIA SMI

1. Install [py3nvml](https://pypi.org/project/py3nvml/):

In [`/remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt`](/remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt) add py3nvml on a newline.

2. Run the following command:
```
pip install --no-cache-dir --upgrade -r /remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt
```

3. Add import statement and initialize method in the file containing the driver code.
```
from py3nvml import nvidia_smi
nvidia_smi.nvmlInit()
```

4. Define and call the below method wherever necessary.

e.g. before and after calling the GPU index cleanup method.
```
from py3nvml import nvidia_smi

def get_gpu_memory():
    handle = nvidia_smi.nvmlDeviceGetHandleByIndex(0)  # GPU Device ID
    info = nvidia_smi.nvmlDeviceGetMemoryInfo(handle)
    print(f"Total: {info.total/1024**2:.2f}MB")
    print(f"Free: {info.free/1024**2:.2f}MB")
    print(f"Used: {info.used/1024**2:.2f}MB")

```

### CPU Memory Profiling with memory_profiler

> 1. Add the below command in [`/remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile`](/remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile) to install [memory_profiler](https://pypi.org/project/memory-profiler/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the below command in [`/remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/remote-vector-index-builder/blob/main/remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile) to install [memory_profiler](https://pypi.org/project/memory-profiler/).
```

Link wasn't working for me, this might work?

Author: I deliberately added the local reference

Local reference redirects to the file while on a Code Editor. Full path will link you to remote github.com
Local reference works out of the box on any branch containing the file

Github CI link-checker.yml also Passes on any branch containing the files
If merged to main or any other primary parallel branches we create, it'll raise an error on new commit to that branch if the file is missing

Reviewer: I believe once the PR is merged it'll work on the browser too. See the `versions.toml` hyperlink in [OpenSearch's developer guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/k-NN/blob/main/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md#custom-patch-on-jni-library). Double check, but it looks like a path like this will get pasted after /blob/main which will resolve to https://github.com/opensearch-project/remote-vector-index-builder/blob/main/remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile

```
RUN conda install -c conda-forge memory_profiler -y
```

2. In the file that contains the function that needs to be profiled, add the import and an `@profile` annotation on the function.
```
from memory_profiler import profile

@profile
def my_func():
    a = [1] * (10 ** 6)
    b = [2] * (2 * 10 ** 7)
    del b
    return a
```

> 3. [Rebuild the core image](#core-image) and run it.

Reviewer 2: How does the user actually run the core image? There's no main.py file

Author: We can list the options available
This is how i tested the memory
1. Add your own driver main.py code and initializing nvidia-smi. Add `CMD ["python", "-m", "memory_profiler", "core/main.py"]` to the Dockerfile

Function that has the `@profile` annotation or log/print statements of nvidia-smi cmds will log/print the stats

Other options
2. Building an API image on top of core and running it. Running the main.py in API image to init nviida-smi.

3. Adding nvidia-smi init cmd in control plane initialization

Author: Any Driver: Custom main, API Handler init, Control plane init, Github CI init 
should Initialize and Shutdown nvidia-smi
memory_profiler for CPU doesn't need any initialization.

Function that has the @profile annotation or log/print statements of nvidia-smi cmds will log/print the stats

Author: Removed the section to run the image for now. 
Thinking we can update the documentation for running images as we add the future runnable images with a driver code.

Keeping steps for both CPU and GPU Memory Profilers only to mention what code to add to enable memory tracking.

- [Python Guide](#python-guide)
    - [Language Formatting Guide](#language-formatting-guide)
    - [Testing Guide](#testing-guide)
- [Building Docker Images](#building-docker-images)
    - [Faiss Base Image](#faiss-base-image)
    - [Core Image](#core-image)
- [Provisioning an Instance for Development](#provisioning-an-instance-for-development)
- [Memory Profiling](#memory-profiling)
    - [GPU Memory Profiling with NVIDIA SMI](#gpu-memory-profiling-with-nvidia-smi)
    - [CPU Memory Profiling with memory_profiler](#cpu-memory-profiling-with-memory_profiler)

# Developer Guide

So you want to contribute code to OpenSearch Remote Vector Index Builder? Excellent! We're glad you're here. Here's what you need to do.

## Getting Started

### Fork Remote Vector Index Builder Repo

Fork [opensearch-project/OpenSearch Remote Vector Index Builder](https://github.com/opensearch-project/remote-vector-index-builder) and clone locally.

Example:
```
git clone https://github.com/[username]/remote-vector-index-builder.git
```

### Install Prerequisites

#### Python Dependencies

The following are commands to install dependencies during local development and testing.

> The required dependencies are installed during Docker image creation onto the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The required dependencies are installed onto the Docker image during creation.
```

Run the following commands from the root folder. Configuration of below tools can be found in [`setup.cfg`](setup.cfg).

The code lint check can be run with:
```
flake8 remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

The formatting check can be run with:
```
black --check remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

The code can be formatted with:
```
black remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

### Testing Guide
The static type checking can be done with:
```
mypy remote_vector_index_builder/ test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```
The Python tests can be run with:
```
pytest test_remote_vector_index_builder/
```

## Building Docker Images
The Github CIs automatically publish snapshot images to Dockerhub at [opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder](https://hub.docker.com/r/opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder).

The following are the commands to build the images locally:

### Faiss Base Image
The [Faiss repository](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss/) is added as a submodule in this repository. Run the below command to initialize the submodule first.
```
git submodule update --init
```

> The Faiss Base Image can only be created on an NVIDIA GPU powered machine with CUDA Toolkit installed.

Reviewer: We should stay consistent with the way we format this — I prefer "Faiss base image" like below. I would keep it capitalized in the header, though.

Please see the section [Provisioning an instance for development](#provisioning-an-instance-for-development) to provision an instance for development.

Run the below command to create the Faiss base image:
```
docker build  -f ./base_image/build_scripts/Dockerfile . -t opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder:faiss-base-latest
```

### Core Image
The path [`/remote-vector-index-builder/core`](/remote_vector_index_builder/core/) contains the code for core index build functionalities:
1. Building an Index
2. Object Store I/O

Build an image with the above core functionalities:
```
docker build  -f ./remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile . -t opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder:core-latest
```

## Provisioning an instance for development

> A NVIDIA GPU Powered machine with CUDA Toolkit installed is required to build a Faiss Base Image, and to run the Docker images to build an index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A NVIDIA GPU powered machine with CUDA Toolkit installed is required to build a Faiss base image and to run the Docker images to build an index.
```

```
docker build  -f ./base_image/build_scripts/Dockerfile . -t opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder:faiss-base-latest
```

### Core Image
The path [`/remote-vector-index-builder/core`](/remote_vector_index_builder/core/) contains the code for core index build functionalities:
1. Building an Index
2. Object Store I/O

Build an image with the above core functionalities:
```
docker build  -f ./remote_vector_index_builder/core/Dockerfile . -t opensearchstaging/remote-vector-index-builder:core-latest
```

## Provisioning an instance for development

A NVIDIA GPU Powered machine with CUDA Toolkit installed is required to build a Faiss Base Image, and to run the docker images to build an index.

Typically an [EC2 G5](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/g5/) 2xlarge instance running a Deep Learning OSS Nvidia Driver AMI, with Docker CLI installed is recommended for development use.

[Setup an EC2 Instance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EC2_GetStarted.html)

## Memory Profiling

Simple memory profiling can be done during development to get memory usage statistics during the Index Build process.

### GPU Memory Profiling with NVIDIA SMI

> 1. Install [py3nvml](https://pypi.org/project/py3nvml/):
> 
> In [`/remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt`](/remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt) add py3nvml on a newline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install [py3nvml](https://pypi.org/project/py3nvml/) by adding `py3nvml` on a newline in [`/remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt`](/remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt) 
```
nit: the formatting is off here, maybe just put it all on one line

> 2. Run the following command:

Reviewer 2: This should be done automatically as part of the Docker build step

```
pip install --no-cache-dir --upgrade -r /remote_vector_index_builder/core/requirements.txt
```

3. Add import statement and initialize method in the file containing the driver code.
```
from py3nvml import nvidia_smi
nvidia_smi.nvmlInit()
```

> 4. Define and call the below method wherever necessary.
> 
> e.g. before and after calling the GPU index cleanup method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Define and call the below method wherever necessary, e.g. before and after calling the GPU index cleanup method.
```
Again the formatting is off because of the numbered list indentation, we can just put this on one line

Author: fixed
